### Eimeterin saun Rubonhart

Eimiterin saun Rubonhart was said to be a renowned blacksmith in his home town of Drestog, living happily with his flamescribe wife and making tools, weapons, and mechanical trinkets for the people. Many famous inventions are attributed to him, with even the royal family of Bergheim claiming ancestry, but perhaps one of the more famous is how he discovered the true use of gimyndine for his people.  

One day, Rubonhart was admiring a particularly beautiful specimen of gimyndine, focusing deeply on the colors and contours he could shape into a beautiful piece. He was then suddenly broken from this trance as he noticed a strange directionless, heatless fire emanating from it. He recognized the substance as the same fire people could produce themselves, used in the creation of flamescript, but he had never seen it so potent before, nor so easily bending to the will of another.   

Slowly, he began to recall the stories of the demigods of old, and how their ability to set their flamescript alight let them perform miracles. In disbelief, he quickly called his wife to burn an engram of an ethereal light into a stone, and he manipulated the strange fire into its curves. The flamescript immediately caught alight, and the very same ethereal ball contained in the engram manifested into reality.  

Realizing the potential of this discovery, he dubs the strange vapor "gimynfire," after the gimyndine stone from which it emerged. A resourceful man by nature, he quickly took to his workshop and worked with his wife to produce many prototypes of modern inventions like the scriptlighter’s spear, gimlantern, and blackfire rifle. Most of these inventions made it out to the public, but notes on a great many more are said to rest in Rubonhart’s fabled workshop hidden somewhere in the caverns.  

Of note is the fact that Rubonhart’s wife, an artist and carver with a special talent for flamescript art, burned many of the engrams Rubonhart used. This, combined with an inability to reject female [firekeepers](/The_Aliffrume_Encyclopedia/Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Firekeeper.md) due to the sheer rarity of the talent, was the reason firekeeping began as unisex in Bergheim.