# Kindlegems

Kindlegems are the most common way of storing/inscribing [[Engram|engrams]]. They are any structure made in such a way as to assist in storing and/or lighting [[Flamescript]]. They can vary wildly in shape, size, quality, and material; all depending on cost and purpose. There is a striking difference between common kindlegems made of heavy metal and [[adamant]]—intended to force [[Soulfire]] into a flamescript’s shape, and containing much simpler engrams for being unable to effectively fold—and [[flamebearer]]’s kindlegems made of various gemstones, though most commonly [[Flash Quartz|artificer’s quartz]] and diamond.

Common kindlegems, often referred to as smokeboxes, are containers designed to be used with machine-operated [[Firekeeping]]. Although the heavy metal is not conducive to folding of the script area, it allows gimynfire to be shaped without sapient intervention, and grants added toughness and durability for rougher situations. For these reasons, they are also given to flamebearers-in-training as practice devices. In such applications, they are colloquially referred to as kiddy-boxes.

Flamebearer’s kindlegems are typically gemstones or minerals with a highly-ordered crystal structure, composed primarily of the [[coupling elements]] like oxygen and silicon, with small heavy metal impurities. The coupling factor is balanced out, which allows for a nice middle ground between less re-scriptings and malleability. The orderly structure of the crystal also allows a much higher variance in engrams, due to the map of woven soulfire having more routine connections to make use of per unit volume. 
