---
aliases:
  - Phantasms
  - phantasm
  - phantasms
---
# Glossary
A collection of definitions and contextualizations by the translators of this work.
## General Transcription
### Palatal Approximant
Will generally be transcribed as a j with a vowel afterwards, which is indicated with an umlaut. For example, “yours” might be transcribed as “jörs.”

## Place Names
### Aliffrüme
Noun. /ælliːfˈfru.m/  
Lit. “source of all life,” a large habitable planet of the Reinbrüne system, 6th in the orbit from its star.

### Reinbrüne
Noun. /ˈrejnbry.ne/  
Lit. “the great flame,” the main solar body about which Aliffrüme orbits.

## Phantasms
### Shade
Noun.  
A malicious [phantasm](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Soulfire/Phantasms/Phantasm.md).

### Dragon
Noun.  
An [ideal phantasm](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Soulfire/Phantasms/Phantasm.md#Ideal%20Phantasm). Except in scientific literature, any ideal phantasm is often referred to simply as such, rather than by a more specific construction (i.e. "ideal automaton") as origin often becomes less relevant in discussion of such beings.

### Eidolon
Noun.  
A [greater phantasm](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Soulfire/Phantasms/Phantasm.md#Greater%20Phantasm).

### Wisp
Noun.  
A [lesser phantasm](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Soulfire/Phantasms/Phantasm.md#Lesser%20Phantasm). 

### Somagenic
Adj.  
Lit. "born from the body," used to refer to [phantasms](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Soulfire/Phantasms/Phantasm.md#) which were born as biological lifeforms, as opposed to fireborn. A more formal synonym for "bodyborn."

### Phlogenic
Adj.  
Lit. "born from soulfire," often used to differentiate fireborn from bodyborn. Synonymous with the former, and considered more formal.
## Souls
### Dominion
Noun.  
The region of space where a given soul or other phlogistic formation has full or partial influence.

### Symbolic Density
Noun.  
How many symbols (that is, atoms of thought) one is able to fit within a certain standard volume of their [soul](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Pure%20Phlogistics/Soul/Soul.md). Directly correlated with one's capacity for [phlogistic computing](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Applied%20Phlogistics/Phlogistic%20Computing.md), more specifically their ability to simulate greater numbers of logic gates and other computational components, and with a shorter distance between them leading to faster response times. Scales directly with the soul's mass.

## General Phlogistics
### Pneumaphilic
Adj.  
Having a high capacity for and/or ease of [infusion](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Soulfire/Interactions/Infusion.md).

### Notion
Noun.  
A concept carried by particular [spark](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Pure%20Phlogistics/Sparks.md) emission patterns or conscious waves, often indicating the cognitive state of their producer. Typically spoken of through metaphors, often onto color or emotion.  
I.e.
- "though he appeared calm, he shone with ferocity" 
- "the engram carried a crimson notion" 
- "her soulfire was always tinged with hope"

### Flamescribe
Noun.  
1. Specifically, a firekeeper who specializes in the creation and transcription of [engrams](../Pure%20Phlogistics/Engram.md). When used as a title, often shortened simply to "Scribe" or "Scr." in writing. 
2. Occasionally, one who studies new applications of [firekeeping](../Applied%20Phlogistics/Firekeeping.md), a [phlogistician](Glossary.md#Phlogistician).

### Phlogistician
Noun.  
1. Generally, any practitioner or researcher of intuitive phenomena.
2. Specifically, a researcher of pure intuitive phenomena and their causes, interactions, and structure. An interrogator of the arcane.

### Flamebearer
Noun.  
A [firekeeper](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Firekeeping/Firekeeper.md) specializing in the implementation of [engrams](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Pure%20Phlogistics/Engram.md); typically combat-oriented, but may also be industrial or otherwise professional.
### Hearth
Noun.  
Among [firekeepers](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Firekeeping/Firekeeper.md), a gathering place.

### Conscious Waves
Noun.  
Waves in the curvature of the [conscious plane](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Pure%20Phlogistics/Conscious%20Plane/Conscious%20Plane.md), which propagate at the speed of causality. Generated by engrammatic mass moving in a quadrupole moment, or equivalent strong intention; this results in soulfire generation being the "loudest" possible action.

### Reckoner
Noun.  
A soulkeeper capable of [Phlogistic Computing](Intuitive%20Phenomena%20&%20Theory/Applied%20Phlogistics/Phlogistic%20Computing.md)
## Species Names
* [Llantakúna](Natural%20Sciences/Biology/Sapient%20Species/Llantakúna.md) : \[Yan-ta-ku-na\] /jɑntakyna/
	* Ayauitlaka : \[Aiya-wheat-tlaka\]  
	* Yejian : \[Yay-jian\]  
	* Ninanyawi : \[Neena-nyaa-wii\]  
	* Nebvoltsi : \[Nebv-völt-see\]
* [Kuthjïuman](Natural%20Sciences/Biology/Sapient%20Species/Kuthjïuman.md) : \[Kooth-yiu-mahn\] /ˈkyːθji͜yː.mɑn/
	* Áren : \[Ah-rin\]
	* Kaithurhi : \[Kaith-oo-rii\]
	* Muintaferan : \[Mwuin-ta-fair-ahn\]
* [Tiangêngzhé](Natural%20Sciences/Biology/Sapient%20Species/Tiangêngzhé.md) : \[Tiahn-eng-zhuh\] 
	* Eigrokonai : \[Eye-grow-ko-nai\]
	* Altakhu : \[All-talk-ooh\]
	* Leaudoré : \[Low-door-ay\]
	* Kayasir : \[Kaiya-seer\]  
* [Zäkhisny](Natural%20Sciences/Biology/Sapient%20Species/Zäkhisny.md) : \[Zahk-izh-knee\]
	* Schausen : \[Shou(t)-sen\]
	* Marmjögur : \[Marm-yo-gur\]
* [Rokajun](Natural%20Sciences/Biology/Sapient%20Species/Rokajun.md) : \[Roe-ka-june\]
## Terminology
### Generation
Noun.  
12 cycles, or 24 semicycles. Used as a threshold for adulthood in many cultures.

### Fullcycle
Noun.  
Approximately 72 semicycles; often used as an approximation for a lifetime.

### Greatcycle
Noun.  
72 cycles, or 144 semicycles; used in the description of periods in history.

### Grandcycle
Noun.  
144 cycles, often used in the description of eras in modern history.