# Soulkeeping
Also known in stoneghost cultures as “savage flames,” or “devil’s breath,” soulkeeping is the practice of firekeeping while using one’s own soul as a source of intention. The technique is most common in the Kuthjïuman and Llantakúna, especially in farming castes such as the Kuthjïuman arteries or Llantakúna mistwalkers, but has been known to also occur in revolutionary figures in grandiose fashion.

## Divinities
Also referred to as "true engrams" or "arts," these are engrams which have entered one's **domain**, becoming engraved within [the soul's core](../Pure%20Phlogistics/Soul/Soul.md#Core) with repeated usage and accrual of relevant memories.

Unlike typical firekeeping, which requires deep concentration to form flamescript often prior to actual use, divinities are much quicker and easier. The rather apparent downside is the difficulty of acquiring as significant a variety of effects as a compendium of scripted engrams might offer. However, given that divinities are as familiar to the user as they get, they are thus highly efficient in regards to soulfire consumption.

Users of notably complex or impressive divinities are often called **deities**, in large part from their theorized prevalent role in forming many idolic religions. Examination of historical records provides significant evidence that suggests many founding figures obtained their relatively tremendous power through divinities, which to a script-less people appeared to be works of deific power.

### Engraving
The process of actually engraving a divinity is entirely subconscious, and highly dependent on deep-set personal interests, beliefs, and other traits. Often rather than choosing an engram, a divinity will gradually develop and shape over time as one becomes more familiar with soulkeeping. For example, a [phlogistician](../../Glossary.md#Phlogistician) who spent their life studying soulfire’s interactions with spacetime might develop a divinity allowing them to directly manipulate spacetime without forming the intricate flamescript.

In contrast to this gradual process, some arts are “gifted” after particularly memorable experiences, and are typically of some vague relation to the original memory. Note that “memorable” does not imply “traumatic,” as an equal number of arts have been gifted for making a sudden breakthrough in learning as for witnessing a shade’s slaughter. These arts in particular are often inexplicably exotic and anthropocentric for their soulfire consumption, and are a point of frequent study in modern phlogistics.

## Bloodfont
A common method of simplistic ranged attack for soulkeepers, a technique which utilizes the generation and manipulation of blood as an improvised or supplementary weapon (a consequence of soulfire’s ease of use within the body). Although it is technically possible to use hair or another material, blood is the most versatile while being relatively cheap to regenerate through soul assertion. The technique is limited by the requirement that each stream connect back to the main body at all times in order to maintain the [soul wall](../Pure%20Phlogistics/Soul/Soul.md#The%20Soul%20Wall), but it is nonetheless deadly in capable hands.

### Blood Infusion
The practice of engulfing objects in a prospective user's blood, granting the tool the ability to interact with soulfire, engrams, and shades without directly infusion it. The technique is preferred by many keepers able to utilize soul assertion as a means of combustion delivery compared to direct infusion. Though it requires constant regeneration, many practitioners find the ease of infusing and maneuvering blood preferable to infusing a metallic weapon, and find that it allows for much higher rates of soulfire throughput. Objects coated with infused blood are also able to hold flamescript for a highly extended, near-indefinite duration, due to blood's intimate connection to the body.