### Oversense

Officially scribed in 1009 AL, the titular extrasensory [[Engram|engram]] Oversense was first created by the eponymous [[Reinlutre|Artery Jöendjëwitt]] to serve as a simple lifestyle improvement after the loss of her vision. The original version functioned by producing a small [[Soulfire|soulfire]] wind from [[Soul|Soul]], allowing the environment to be “felt” through proprioception. Without active management, this method resembles EM sight in that perspective remains important, although perception is simultaneously omnidirectional. It also requires a fair amount of power, and is hard to maintain while utilizing other engrams.  

Further improvements on the engram instead pivoted towards embedding the [[Soul|halo]] within [[Conscious Plane|the conscious plane]] to feel its curvature, creating what amounts to an extracorporeal sense of touch within a certain radius. As it still operates within the intuitive, this sense can only detect [[Infusion|infused matter]] or soulfire, though because the halo is still expanded in this version a light infusion still falls on the nearby available matter, making this a moot point.  

However, this method proves difficult for persons used to 2D vision to visualize, and so further advancements on the technique instead wire the halo similar to hearing, at the expense of significant information loss. Thus many start with this model to ease themselves into proficiency with the former.  

The development of oversense depended heavily on the simultaneous development of [[Dynamic Space Theory]], in order to feel infusion by curvature rather than force. This provided the necessary jump in efficiency to allow the engram to be used while maneuvering without significant training or inhibition. Thus in modern times, many [[Firekeeper|firekeepers]] now familiarize themselves with foundational oversense as part of their training, as the proper extension of the natural senses.