# Phlogistic Model   
The predominant theory of [Intuition](../../Natural%20Sciences/Biology/Intuition.md) which models such phenomena as being caused by the generation, movement, and decay of [Soulfire](Soul/Soulfire.md), itself caused by the curvature of the [Conscious Plane](Conscious%20Plane/Conscious%20Plane.md), ultimately due to the patterns of the fundamental phases and [Soulfire](Soul/Soulfire.md). In this way, the model situates the phases as the ultimate source of intuitive phenomena and paracausality.
## [Leombjürna's](../../../Narratives/Characters/Sic%20Semper%20Tyrannis/Älwathend%20Witafjürgen.md) Laws of Engrams
1. An [engram](Engram.md), herein as it is defined, is any process which controls [Soulfire](Soul/Soulfire.md) for some purpose. Thermodynamically, it is any process which influences state evolution (entropy) by the paracausal control of [Soulfire](Soul/Soulfire.md).
2. It is impossible for an [Engram](Engram.md), its effect, or its target to travel faster than light and/or causality. Time travel is therefore impossible under all circumstances.
3. It is impossible for an [Engram](Engram.md) to permanently remove information. Information about what an [Engram](Engram.md) accomplished is contained in the [sparks](Soul/Soulfire.md#Sparks) it generates and the [flamescript](../Soulfire/Flamescript.md) left behind.
4. It's impossible for an [Engram](Engram.md) to change, create, remove, or ignore an engrammatic law.

### Practical Limitations
Of all the [sapients](../../Natural%20Sciences/Biology/Sapient%20Species/Consciousness.md) on Aliffrüme, an estimated 3.4% are capable of resonating with [purestones](../Soulfire/Gimyndine/Gimyndine.md#^4fb5c9) or better. Gimyns below this grade are unsuitable for little but carrying personal cargo unless mass resonance–a technique indigenous and restricted to the raincatcher Áren–is performed. Given the difficulty and danger of maintaining a resonant state, using singular stones for long periods of time is impractical. Combined with the rarity of purestones, this means that resonant [Firekeeping](../Applied%20Phlogistics/Firekeeping.md) is rarely used for individual concerns, and is most often utilized in industry and national defense. 
   
Blackfire devices are, though limited in scope and portability, relatively common, given how easy ashstone dust is to produce. This is how most machinery is powered within industrial centers, though it sees little use in rural areas given the dangers of contamination.

On the flip side, though [soulkeeping](../Applied%20Phlogistics/Soulkeeping.md) is equally accessible to any and all, the practice requires intense discipline, self-reflection, and overall dedication to produce measurable results. This results in intense specialization, where those who have little or no reason to utilize it do not, leaving a select few who dedicate their lives to it.