## Rokajun
A reclusive race that exclusively inhabits the island of Karaji, the [Rokajun](/The_Aliffrume_Encyclopedia/Glossary.md#^d65fcd)'s defining trait is their top-side soulfire sensitivity organs separate from their hearing ears, covered in fur-like hair to survive the [Kanajiho](The_Aliffrume_Encyclopedia/Geography/Kanajiho.md) winters. Like the Nebvoltsi, they also possess a [copper pigment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turacoverdin) in their hair and skin, only theirs possesses more of an emerald color. <!-- Their ears can vary in size and shape, resembling everything from fox to rabbit.  -->  

Being a polar species, they are naturally built tall, strong, and hairy, while being paradoxically efficient. Long hair ranging from mint green to dark emerald covers the men and women, although not so thick as to cover the skin. Due to its value in their survival, many Rokajun often take great care to grow their hair as long as possible, and consider it a point of pride. Their feet are also known to be rather large and wide, an adaptation that assists in walking over snow.  

Because of the rare, vibrant emerald color of their hair and fur, before the development of advanced molecular [synthesis](../../../Anthropology/Economics/Synthesizer.md), Rokajun would often be coerced into selling their hair, or even captured into slavery, in order to extract the pigment. Its heat-generating properties found use in jackets, rugs, upholstery, and winter coats of those unconcerned with its source.  

Outside of glaring ethical considerations, modern synthesis techniques have since made such practices obsolete. However, a notable minority still believe in "authenics," and many Rokajun are often at risk of assault in many modern nations. Because of this fact, they will often hide their ears and hair color through clothing, bleaching, and other methods. 